Step 1: Design the Topology.

Step 2: Configure the network.
Examine the default port status and manipulate DTP.


Switch D1:

Switch A1:

Change the administrative mode of interface f0/1 on A1 to Dynamic Desirable with the
interface configuration command switchport mode dynamic desirable. Then check the
interface switchport status and you will see that it is in trunk mode. The output of show
interfaces trunk will show the protocol as desirable. The output of show interfaces trunk on
D1 will show auto.


To see this, configure D1 interface g1/0/6 with the switchport mode trunk command. Then
you should once again see that A1 has automatically negotiated a trunk, this time between
f0/2 and D1 g1/0/6.

Then go to D1 and configure interfaces g1/0/5 and g1/0/6 as trunks with the additional
command switchport nonegotiate. Then you re- enable the interfaces at A1, you will see that
they do not form trunks with D1.


At each switch, issue the global configuration command default interface range first-int-id -
last-int-id to reset the interfaces back to their defaults.

Configure Basic Device Settings
Switch D1:

Switch D2:

Switch A1:

Step 3: Configure Static EtherChannel.
• Configure and verify trunking between D2 and A1.
Verify the trunks have formed.

Configure and verify a static EtherChannel link between D2 and A1.
Add the command channel-group 1 mode on to all the trunk interfaces between D2 and A1.

Verify the EtherChannel has formed by examining the output of the show ether channel summary
command. Also check the spanning tree status. You will see that there is a change to the topology
because Po1 replaced interfaces F0/3 and F0/4 with a lower cost.

Make a change to the EtherChannel.
On D2 and A1, create VLAN 999 with the name NATIVE_VLAN.


On D2 and A1, modify interface port-channel 1 so that it uses VLAN 999 as the native VLAN.

Verify the change has been applied by examining the output of show interfaces trunk.

Step 4: Implement EtherChannel Using PAgP.
Configure and verify trunking between D1 and A1.
Verify the trunks are still working.

Configure and verify an EtherChannel using PAgP between D1 and A1.
Add the command channel-group 2 mode desirable non-silent to all the trunk interfaces between D1 and A1.

Verify the EtherChannel has formed by examining the output of the show etherchannel summary
command.

Make a change to the EtherChannel.
On D1, create VLAN 999 with the name NATIVE_VLAN.

On D1 and A1, modify interface port-channel 2 so that it uses VLAN 999 as the native VLAN.

Verify the change has been applied by examining the output of show interfaces trunk | iPort|Po3.

Step 5: Implement EtherChannel using LACP.
• Configure and verify trunking between D1 and D2.
Verify the trunks are still operational.

Configure and verify an EtherChannel using LACP between D1 and D2.
Add the command channel-group 4 mode active to all the trunk interfaces between D1 and D2.


Make a change to the EtherChannel.
On D1 and D2, modify interface port-channel 4 so that it uses VLAN 999 as the native VLAN.
Verify the change has been applied by examining the output of show interfaces trunk | iPort|Po4.
